Indie bookstores survive 'valley of death,' reflect changing consumer mindset 

February 26, 2011 | By Ted Gregory, Tribune reporter
One big-box book retailer, Borders, has toppled into bankruptcy protection. Another, Barnes and Noble, reportedly is for sale. E-books and amazon.com are changing the fundamentals of how people read and buy books.
But on Main Street in Glen Ellyn, in a small shop tucked between a yarn store and the alley, Jane Stroh and her staff are trying to write another chapter in the ongoing saga: How Independent Booksellers Survived Death Valley.
It's an adventure story -- possibly with a happy ending. For some.
"I certainly don't make a living here," said Stroh, who started working at The Bookstore in 1985 and bought the tiny shop in 1997. "Am I in the black? Fractionally, but it's never been about the money for me. If it was, I would have been long gone by now."
The store is one of about 50 independent retail booksellers in the Chicago area. Not too long ago, all of them and the other roughly 4,000 independents across the U.S. were supposed to vaporize. By some estimates, more than 2,000 did.
But about 1,500 survived. And through a mix of obsessive attention to detail, lean inventory, an embrace of technology and resourceful salesmanship, they hang in there. They're also feisty and perhaps desperate enough to try the wackiest promotions -- from hosting female comedy troupes to "vampire blood drives."
In fact, the survival of the independent bookstore may reflect a changing consumer mindset and serve as a metaphor for what it takes to succeed today in business, important considerations as the country limps out of its worst economic recession in 70 years.
"They got through their own valley of death," said Scott Lubeck, executive director of the Book Industry Study Group, a trade association based in New York City.
Lubeck, like other experts, said the number of independents that disappeared in the last 20 years included many hobbyists. But the decline has "absolutely" leveled off in recent years, he said.
"I see many, many independent booksellers," Lubeck said, "and I think they're going to continue to thrive. There's no question about it: The bookstore is still the most powerful instrument to connect a reader with a book."
That's pretty much how Shannon Stevens perceived it one afternoon this week at The Bookstore. She and her daughter, Katherine, 4, were hanging out waiting for Dad to arrive on the train from work.
"They've survived because they're responsive to their customers and the staff knows their books," Stevens said as Katherine paged through a "Clifford the Big Red Dog" book.
She also said she'd rather support local business than larger chains.
"And, it's just cozier in here," Stevens added. "I feel better walking out of the store with their book than I do walking out of a Borders or a Barnes and Noble."
Tapping into that personal connection takes a variety of forms among independents. Typically, it means knowing customers so well that staff can suggest books as soon as a customer walks in the door. A typical example was when Stroh escorted longtime customer Michelle Peterson to the staff favorites wall and suggested the novel "Swamplandia," by Karen Russell.
The connection also can be more sophisticated. The Book Stall at Chestnut Court, in business for nearly 30 years in Winnetka, offers a children's book club. An adult provides a list of the child's interests to staff, who select the books, gift wrap them and send them to the home every month.
Resourceful diversification is part of the formula. The Book Stall's owner, Roberta Rubin, partners with downtown civic and social organizations to bring prominent authors to town. Those efforts have landed some heavyweights: from Jimmy Carter and Donald Rumsfeld to J.K. Rowling and Martha Stewart.
Anderson's Bookshop, an independent that started in 1875 as a row of books on the shelf of a Naperville pharmacy, has created a company that stages mobile book fairs, primarily in schools.
The Bookstore in Glen Ellyn supplies books to about 30 area book clubs.
In addition, help has come from the American Booksellers Association, the national trade association for independent booksellers, which in December partnered with Google, allowing them to sell Google eBooks online. The ABA also has established IndieBound, a well-received marketing program that helps independents promote the importance of patronizing locally owned, independent establishments of all kinds.
Then there is the independents' penchant for taking risks. The March lineup at the Book Cellar, a popular store in Chicago's Lincoln Square neighborhood, includes speed dating, a Mom's Read Aloud Recommendation Party, comedy performance by the Kates, and "a glorious glimpse into the Chicago underground poster scene."
On Feb. 18, Anderson's Naperville store brought screwball musical comedian Weird Al Yankovic to town. It also has hosted the bloodmobile from Heartland Blood Center while giving away plastic vampire teeth and chances to win autographed copies of Anne Rice's "Interview With the Vampire."
The store even creates life-size dolls of visiting authors, staging them around town for photos.
"You can't sit in your four walls and do nothing," co-owner Becky Anderson said. "Besides, that's boring. You've got to make it fun for yourself and fun for your customers."
Whatever the mix, they seem to be responding.
Then there are customers like Matthew Mikkelsen of Chicago's Albany Park neighborhood. He recently found a Chicago history book for his daughter at the Book Cellar.
Becoming increasingly suspicious of large corporations, Mikkelsen says he appreciates the "more diverse, eclectic" offerings at the independent shop.
But something else was in play too.
"I would have gone to Borders near my office," he said, "but it was closed."