Affordable Places to Raise a Family in California. Any left? (Sacramento: house, tech jobs)
 
- it's free and very quick! You have to register before you can post and participate in our discussions with 1 million other registered members. User profiles and some forums can only be seen by registered members. After you
you will be able to customize many options, you will have the full access to over 15,000 posts/day about local topics and you will see fewer ads.
 
Jump to a detailed profile or search site with Search Forums( Advanced) Business Search- 14 Million verified businesses Search for: near:
 
 
Location: Mountain Ranch, CA The heart of Calaveras County
4,734 posts, read
6,914,819
times
 
 

3,202 posts, read
4,302,238
times
etozion
My hope that all those small places will go down in price with current real estate downturn and eventually will qualify.
Don't you agree all these places have charm and character? Not like
Yes, I agree with you 100%.  And even though I no longer live in California and would *never* move back to S. Cal. for various reasons stated, I would definitely consider some of the places you have mentioned.  Forget Fresno or Lancaster or even the
Valley.
Because California is a very large state there is a lot of variety, from densely populated regions to more wide open spaces within beautiful settings.  The latter are the places which I would target.  It is much easier to find a job in the metro areas and that is why all the people flock there - like flies to honey.  But if you plan carefully and wait for the right opportunity the other places in California offer a lot more character and a better environment for families IMO.
 
I was actually looking at areas up in your neck of the woods.  I agree that you live in one of the nicest parts of California - the Sierra Foothills.
For my line of work I don't know if I could 'realistically' live there before retirement.  I work as a software engineer and the best work for me would probably be in Sac.  I wouldn't mind commuting reasonable distances (< 1 hour).  And I was looking at
and its surrounding region may be a more doable commute into Sac.  I visited there before and really liked it.
What are your thoughts on the commuter aspect of your area for folks that need a 'city' job.
Also could you describe your area a little more from a locals perspective?  It is not as hot there as Sac. right?  Do you get any snow there at all?  How far are you from the Park entrance?
Thanks for any input you can provide,
 
 
perfect weather
, but you are getting it only if you are relatively close to the ocean. The rest of CA - just no different from other western states, and therefore, by this mean, is overpriced.
For working folks combination
prefect weather + jobs
is the main attraction in California. Everywhere else you will have to compromise on at list one thing from that "honey comb" combination.
From this point of view many mentioned places are "not California":
 
I agree with most of what you are saying with regards to coastal weather, jobs and consequent high prices.
That is really why I am living in Colorado with my family right now.  It just doesn't make good economic sense for our family.  I don't want my whole paycheck going to a $600K+ mortgage.
But there is one *Very* big difference in living in more affordable Calif. places, lets say the Sierra Foothills or Grass Valley and other outer areas of California vs. the Mid West, Phoenix, etc...
The difference is you can still drive to the Coast for a the day or a weekend.  And for me that is a *Huge* difference because I love the sea.
Now for my wife it is not a big of a deal because she doesn't love the ocean as much as I do.  And maybe for other being *landlocked* is not such a big deal.  But there are days I just want to get in my car and DRIVE all the way to the west coast just to see the ocean.  But it is just too darn FAR.  So yes it is a very big difference to me and others who really enjoy having *some* ocean access.
Maybe for you and your family it really does matter.  If that is the case then Colorado or these other states probably make more sense.
I am thinking more and more about the PNW - the housing is more reasonable and you have a lot of beautiful, green open areas.  I really don't mind the rain all that much.  I lived in dry S. Cal. most of my life.  I don't even mind the snow in Colorado.  I acutally look forward to 'snow days.'
Here is what I get to enjoy on my way to work:
 
 
Wow, grate picture.
I know, there are family value places with less compromises: Austin, NC, Denver, Portland, just to name few, where good jobs available, and the weather not to extremes.
But still - compromises. This is why I started this post.
To continue your logic further, there are booming places overseas, where you can have 2-4 maids, live "as a king", and get more flavor of life. Don't forget, as many in this country, it's a Global Economy now.
It's just happened that US for almost a century is a magnet for many people. Nothing in the world is forever. My personal opinion: if somewhere in the world will be a country with better pay, prospects, easer to live, etc. - many people will leave US.
Well, I'm getting off the topic.
The present direction of economy is less mid-class oriented and not family friendly at all. Therefore these categories of people have to move in search for "leftovers" and "pockets". My topic is not about "overseas" and "leftovers", but about "pockets". Pockets in the state with overpopulated, overbuild areas, overran by ethnic emigrations in which you may or mar not fit. With tendency for "only wealthy + only poor" areas such pockets getting more in value and become expensive, so it's become a matter of having or not a lot of money. If you don't have $$$, you are in the search for the affordable pockets.
Looks like there are some limited choices.
 
Wow, grate picture.
I know, there are family value places with less compromises: Austin, NC, Denver, Portland, just to name few, where good jobs available, and the weather not to extremes...
The present direction of economy is less mid-class oriented and not family friendly at all. Therefore these categories of people have to move in search for "leftovers" and "pockets". My topic is not about "overseas" and "leftovers", but about "pockets". Pockets in the state with overpopulated, overbuild areas, overran by ethnic emigrations in which you may or mar not fit. With tendency for "only wealthy + only poor" areas such pockets getting more in value and become expensive, so it's become a matter of having or not a lot of money. If you don't have $$$, you are in the search for the affordable pockets.
Looks like there are some limited choices.
Yes, there are some alternative choices.  But if someone wants the 'best' weather and 'best' job market they will pay a premium - simple supply and demand.
However keep in mind that people have different definitions in what they consider 'best' with regards to weather for example.  Many ex-Californians who moved to Oregon would never want to move back even if money was not an issue.  And I think this is same for many others who have migrated away from Calif. to other areas.  Because with the 'mild' climate comes 'Millions' of people, increased crime, pollution, etc...  Plus I grew tired of the dry weather with no real seasons to speak of.  Sure it is nice when it is always 50-80 degrees out.  But temperatures alone aren't everything.  Without much rain you have droughts, wild fires and decreased air quality.
Now the fact that Calif. is a 'Huge' state means there are other less crowded places to the North which are greener.  And so some of those 'pockets' are still nice places to live and raise a family IMO.  Finding jobs there will take more effort.
 
Verde in CO, but traveled two parts of Oregon and liked nature there, but weather-vise and state of economy were depressing to me.
IMO only CA `pockets' provide the best alternative to `leftovers' or `overseas'. Even more - only `pockets' will
have quality of life
 
Please register to post and access all features of our very popular forum. It is free and quick. Over $31,000 in prizes was already given out to active posters on our forum. Additional giveaways are planned. Detailed information about all U.S. cities, counties, and zip codes on our site: City-data.com.
 
Hide this Facebook widget
Page 3 of 7 < 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 >
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quick Reply
 
Message:
 
 
 
 
 
«
Previous Thread
|
Next Thread
»
City-Data Forum > U.S. Forums > California
Best Places to raise a family in CA thats affordable, California Forum, 22 replies Help!  Is there any affordable place left in California?, California Forum, 73 replies Best affordable area to raise family Riverside?, California Forum, 3 replies Looking in California for beautiful, affordable, liberal, small coastal town to raise family...w/ mountain views too?:), California Forum, 25 replies which area to look for regarding affordable housing but also nice place to raise a family.., California Forum, 1 replies Relocating to California.  Good places to raise kids?, California Forum, 7 replies
 
