Colors making a splash in today's bathrooms 

Images
OGDEN -- The bathroom is one of the most intimate rooms in the home, and people are no longer ignoring it the way they did in the past.
Dane Quittner, marketing director for Re-Bath of Utah in Salt Lake City, said homeowners are decorating their bathrooms with a much more personal, creative touch these days.
"There's been a huge shift in bathroom colors," he said. "A lot of the warmer colors are very popular. We're seeing orange, salmon, teal, greens."
In addition, Quittner said, themes are gravitating toward Old World Tuscan, Venetian, Nautical or Asian motifs that carry the design throughout the entire room.
"The bathroom is no longer the forgotten room of the house," he said. "People want it to blend with the other rooms. They want to feel peaceful and tranquil in their bathroom. Warmer colors really increase the feel of the bathroom."
If you don't want to paint a bold wall, Quittner said you can keep it neutral and decorate with bold accents. Many bathrooms have white sinks, toilets and tubs but are complimented with rich, bold colors.
Colorful towels and hooks can also serve as accents to a neutral bathroom.
"Tans, browns and dark mochas are some of the colors people are using as well," he said. "You can take those colors and add a bold accent. You can really do a lot to add to your bathroom, no matter how big or small."
Rebecca Erdmann, co-owner of Sand & Swirl in Ogden, also said the earth tones are very popular in today's bathrooms. But earth tones don't have to just be the colors of tree trunks and grass. They can also include the bold colors of flowers.
"The warm brown tones are very popular right now," she said. "People are gravitating toward that warm, comfortable atmosphere in the bathroom, and they are doing so in fun and creative ways."
Not only does paint add to the warmth of a bathroom, but tile, stone and fixtures also create a Zen-type of atmosphere. The company offers a variety of colors, including beige, taupe, onyx, silver, Dresden blue, gray and brown.
"People want that feeling of peace and relaxation in the bathroom," she said. "There are so many color choices and options these days. Almost anything is possible."