Medicaid Audits: Protecting Your Organization When the Government Comes Knocking
Tuesday, November 20, 2007
Health care providers, including pharmacy operators, are facing an increasing number of subpoenas, record demands, audit requests and even search warrants from federal, state and local officials, thanks to the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), which mandated heightened government scrutiny of Medicaid providers.
Providers need to adopt and implement an effective compliance plan (or continue review of existing plans). The development and implementation of internal protocols that provide the organization's management with guidance when threatened with an audit or investigation also is essential.
Federal Initiatives-Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
The DRA directed the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a Medicaid Integrity Program (MIP). The MIP is designed to provide the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) the resources necessary to combat Medicaid fraud, waste and abuse. Congress appropriated $5 million for FY 2006 with an additional $50 million in each of 2007 and 2008 and $75 million in 2009 and annually thereafter to carry out the operations of MIP.
Responsibility for CMS' activities related to Medicaid has been delegated to the Center for Medicaid and State Operations (CMSO). A new unit within CMSO, the Medicaid Integrity Group (MIG), is responsible for the audit and review of providers and will coordinate activities of field staff, hold national training conferences and prepare an annual report to Congress.
The MIP will be conducting audits and supporting state program integrity efforts. The DRA directs the secretary of HHS to enter into contracts with eligible entities, known as Medicaid Integrity Contractors (MICs) to carry out the MIP's activities, including:
review of actions of individuals or entities furnishing items or services that may be paid for through Medicaid audit of claims for payment for items or services furnished or for administrative services rendered under Medicaid identification of overpayments to individuals or entities receiving federal funds education of service providers, managed care entities, beneficiaries and other individuals about payment integrity and quality of care.
The Division of Field Operations will have five field offices in the five "fraud hot-spots", including: (i) New York; (ii) Atlanta; (iii) Chicago; (iv) Dallas; and (v) San Francisco, which will serve as the bases for the territory covered by the MICs for audits and identification of overpayments. Initially, four pilot states - Florida, Mississippi, Texas and Washington - are undergoing test audits.
If during an audit potential fraud is detected, the MICs will then refer the case to the Office of Inspector General. As directed by the DRA, CMS has released the initial Comprehensive Medicaid Integrity Plan (CMIP) and an update to the CMIP for operations of the MIP and states are required to be in compliance. The CMIP 2007 update provides that MIG activities will include managing strategic contractors to assist MIG in formulating its approach to implementing the program, taking steps toward procuring Medicaid Integrity auditing services conducted by the MICs and engaging in state program integrity oversight reviews. The audits will follow the Government Auditing Standards (The Yellow Book) adopted by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
Clearly, the program anticipates a return on investment, and CMS intends to provide such a return to Congress. Its annual reports to Congress will include the return on investment, which will take the form of collections of overpayments and the prevention of inappropriate payments.
State and Local Initiatives-New York
Last September, CMS approved a New York state Medicaid waiver request, under which the federal government agreed to pay to New York $1.5 billion over five years. The agreement, known as the Federal State Healthcare Reform Partnership (F-SHRP) has a number of conditions, including a mandate for recovering Medicaid overpayments due to fraud, abuse, errors or omissions. Annual recovery targets under the agreement are significantly higher than the state's historical recoveries.
Because failing to meet targets can result in the forfeiture of funds under the F-SHRP, we can expect an increased state audit presence in New York, as well as other jurisdictions that follow suit. Several counties, as well as New York City, also have been approved to begin audits of Medicaid providers in the state under the supervision of the Office of State Medicaid Inspector General.
The law that established the New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General also created a new social services law that requires providers (whose Medicaid business constitutes a "substantial portion of their business operations") to develop and implement compliance programs aimed at detecting Medicaid fraud, waste and abuse. These compliance plan requirements are mandatory and in addition to the DRA compliance requirements for covered Medicaid providers.
Fair Audit Legislation - Pennsylvania Model
In response to the increased scrutiny of Medicaid providers and federal, state and local audits, legislation has been proposed in certain jurisdictions, including Pennsylvania, that would establish fair audit procedures. The proposals in Pennsylvania would establish minimum and uniform standards and criteria for the audit of pharmacy records, including:
providing for two weeks written notice before conducting an onsite audit basing overpayment or underpayment on actual overpayment and underpayment and not projections auditing similarly situated pharmacies under the same standards and parameters limiting the audit to a period not exceeding one year from the date the claim was submitted or adjudicated not basing payments to the contracting auditor on a percentage of the amounts recovered requiring the receipt by the pharmacy of a copy of the audit report and permitting the pharmacy to respond to any discrepancy using the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs or any other recognized national industry standard to evaluate claims submission and product size disputes limiting the pharmacy's liability where a pharmacy makes a reasonable inquiry regarding the availability of third-party resources to a claimant for pharmacy benefits.
Prospective Compliance Steps
In light of the heightened risk of receiving a subpoena, record demand, search warrant and/or facility inspection or audit notice by not one but several government agencies at one time (and at several levels of government, including federal, state and local government), Medicaid providers and management should take certain compliance measures on a prospective basis, as well as follow certain adopted protocols when threatened with an audit or investigation. These measures include:
developing and implementing effective compliance plans reviewing for effectiveness existing plans and procedures, and developing protocols and practices to improve compliance and address risk areas engaging in internal reviews and audits of claims and medical records evaluating whether self-disclosure and voluntary repayment is appropriate establishing protocols and procedures that will guide your organization when threatened with a subpoena, records demand, search warrant or notice of facility inspection or audit.
Audit and Investigation Protocols
Upon receipt of a subpoena or other demand for records, search warrant, or notice of facility inspection or audit, your organization should have protocols that will guide management through the audit process. These protocols should include the following:
engage counsel as early as possible determine which government agency and office you are dealing with and at what level of government ensure that all requests and demands are streamlined so that your organization does not become subject to more than one audit for the same issues and have to pay for the same review more than once if your organization receives more than one request, coordinate with the agencies making the requests and have counsel interface with the agencies to narrow the issues, limit the scope of the audits and attempt to streamline through one agency have counsel work with the agency to coordinate facility inspections and responses to document requests and subpoenas establish reasonable parameters and timetables for any inspection, audit, document production and employee interviews work with the agency, through counsel, and take measures to keep the audit or investigation from becoming adversarial properly communicate with management and employees about an audit or investigation take actions to ensure that any audit or investigation does not interfere with care delivery or patient relations adequately protect, through privilege, work product and communications between the organization, consultants and counsel preserve records and cease routine and non-routine document destruction determine whether entrance and exit interviews of employees is appropriate and select trusted employees for these interviews monitor the audit process and have trusted employees supervise and assist with the audit process secure a copy of the audit results; if unfavorable consider with counsel defenses to the audit results and drafting of a position paper, and if appropriate, filing timely appeals throughout the audit process, takes steps to limit your organization's financial exposure, including with respect to any overpayment (through conducting your own internal investigation), as well as costs associated with complying with the audit or investigation.
John W. Jones
