Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72 @ TigerDroppings.com
Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/12/12 at 7:19 p.m.)
re: Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/12/12 at 7:52 p.m. to austintexastiger)
Thanks for posting that. My favorite Tiger, Bert is a character. He was on the radio last week talking about that game. Said he threw an option pass, meaning it was so wobbly Davis had the option on what end of the ball he wanted to catch.
Ahhh...the memories. He was a fmatnastic talent.  To this day, a great LSU supporter. Mett does remind me of the Rustin Rifle...his swagger, stands tall in the pocket, and has the same cannon for an arm. Mett even has that early 70s hair do going for him.
Bert was great doing  Tigervision games back in the 80's. Wish he got more respect for his NFL career, he was absolutely incredible when he had talent around him. Too bad he played in the Steelers and Raiders' heyday.
re: Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/13/12 at 1:57 p.m. to Cincinnati Bowtie)
I read a story bout Bert in one of the books out there bout LSU football. He & an OL friend had gone deer hunting (skipping class) in the morning, shot a nice buck & then, to save time, they had gutted & dressed the buck in one of the bathrooms in the old dressing rooms in TS. Hurrying to get out to practice, neither took the time to shower and/or clean up. Bert said everytime he & the lineman got in the huddle, all his teammates were cursing them out like dogs, as they got rather rank as the hot, sweaty practice went by. He said Coach Mac just walked up to him, stared him in the eyes, shook his head & walked away without a word.
re: Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/13/12 at 2:31 p.m. to austintexastiger)
Thanks for posting that. I had never seen it. I was in the student section that night. Ole Miss had punted to Lsu with about 4 minutes left and if memory serves me correctly. Jones was sacked and actually started the drive from like the 17 after the sack. Great Drive! I met Bert Jones at a dove hunt after his pro career was over and we talked about the game. He told me that drive was the most FUN he ever had in his whole career. Great Tiger!!!
re: Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/13/12 at 2:34 p.m. to Iam4LSUnTN)
quote: the same cannon for an arm. Not really ready to say that, yet.  Russell and Jones had unreal arms.  Mett is definitely NFL-quality, and probably as good as any we've had (including Hodson), with the exception of Russell and Jones - from a pure armstrength standpoint, those are 2 of the strongest arms in CFB history.(ETA: I agree that Mett is reminiscent of Jones in style, though.)
This post was edited on 11/13 at 2:35 pm
re: Bert Jones in the 70s reminiscing about Ole Miss '72
(Posted on 11/13/12 at 4:14 p.m. to austintexastiger)
I was at that game, and the explosion of elation after Jackson hit the PAT was unrivaled until Skyler Green caught the game winner against UGA in '03 and, unlike today, NOBODY LEFT THE DAMN GAME!!!  The stands were still full all the way until the end. Also notice how Ole Miss' colors were painted into the SEZ.  That was fairly common back in those days. It was also nice to hear John Ferguson's voice.  He, to me, is STILL the Voice of the Tigers.  His vocabulary was rivaled only by that of Howard Cosell.
This post was edited on 11/13 at 5:20 pm
