Nude male drawing,Gay - Fine Art PRINT- PELOPS
 
 
 
Standard Shipping from outside US
Items shipping internationally
may be subject to customs processing depending on the item's declared value.
Sellers
set the item's declared value and must comply with customs declaration laws.
Buyers
may be subject to additional charges for customs clearance.
Visit eBay's page on
Item specifics
Original/Reproduction: Original Print Style: Realism Listed By: Artist Signed?: Signed Edition Type: Limited Edition Size Type/ Largest Dimension: 7,5" x 11,5" Subject: Nudes
PLEASE CONTACT ME TO SEE THE WHOLE IMAGE OF THIS ARTWORK
Offered a LIMITED edition PRINT of an ORIGINAL coloured pencil and watercolour drawing rendered
in a classical, realistic style, on heavy weight archival paper with archival
ink:
PLEASE REMEMBER TO CHECK OUT MY ID FOR MY "ADULT CONTENT" ARTWORK.
Every print is made and carefully inspected by the artist himself, and signed,
numbered and dated in pencil. Each print is shipped with a Certificate of
Authenticity, also signed by the artist: Marco Zagato.
Please note that every monitor has slightly different colour resolution,
colours might not be exact from original painting/drawing.
This image contains virtual models, manipulated & hand painted as a fine
art image, printed by the artist. All models are either imaginary.
This work on paper is a fine example of painting that would be a welcome
addition to any art collection.
Drawing will be very carefully packed for safe posting: each print becoming
individually put in cellophane envelope and Posted flat, sandwiched between
thick cardboard so that it will NOT be rolled or creased. Please take time to view my other Paintings and Drawings for sale(just
click on View Sellers Other Items ) and if you buy Two or more items I will
happily discount the postage and packing price(free post on 2nd print).
I apologize
with my customers for the increase in postage rates, but the Italian post
office have increased by 90% their fees and as until today my request for shipping costs was below then
I have spent, and given the current prices I find myself obliged to ask at
least a little bit of increase.
Remember, that
I'm always available at the possibility of combining the shipment of multiple
purchases, and to take advantage of this way of saving is sufficient to make
contact with me once you make the purchases and then wait to receive the
payment request.
Delivery confirmation will be e-mailed to you as soon as I ship your item out. Shipping (certified mail):  Buyer pays shipping: $14.50 for U.S.A. € 8.00 for Europe and Great
Britain € 5.00 for Italy If you have questions please don't hesitate to ask. Payment terms are credit cards through Paypal (www.paypal.com). A Paypal link at the bottom of this page can be used to link to paypal for
payment.
Payment
must be received within 7 days after the auction ends. Thank you for your visit!
, this auction is almost over and you're currently the high bidder.
Please enter a valid number as the bid price.
Enter an amount that is equal or greater than the minimum bid required. This can be found under the bid entry box.
Maximum bids can't be lowered once they're submitted.
 
 
