VICTORIA CERAMICS JAPAN BOXING BOXER DOGS - Vintage Salt and Pepper S&P Shakers
We find the most interesting Vintage Salt. Here are the best deals we found for the VICTORIA CERAMICS JAPAN BOXING BOXER DOGS - Vintage Salt and Pepper S&P Shakers for sale on the Internet.
Current Price: $7.50
SOLD
If you want to find similar items currently for sale please click here.
VICTORIA CERAMICS JAPAN BOXING BOXER DOGS - Vintage Salt and Pepper S&P Shakers Picture(s) and Description:
As my schedule doesn't allow me a lot of time to write a long narrative for each item, my descriptions are brief. Please refer to the "Item Specifics" box located above for all relevant and important information pertaining to this item. I also rely on and provide many high-quality pictures as part of the description. Please examine them carefully and take full advantage of both the "Zoom" and "Enlarge" features that are available to you. All items are wiped clean prior to photographing, and all are ready to go directly from the shipping box into your display cabinet. Nearly all of the shakers I sell are collectibles and are not intended for everyday use on your dinner table. Most are old and will have some normal wear and tear. Some may have age-related crazing or manufacturing flaws such as variations in paint coverage, skipped or over-applied glaze, rough spots and edges, or firing imperfections. I examine each item carefully, but if I have overlooked something that you feel is important, or if I have made a mistake, please let me know as soon as possible. I encourage questions, and I am always happy to provide additional pictures upon request. Terms of Sale Bidding Is Your Agreement To All Terms Of This Auction PAYMENT: Payment is appreciated within 4 days of item ending. If payment is not received within that time, eBay will automatically open an unpaid item case. If left unresolved, limitations or loss of buying privileges could be placed on your account. Please make sure you are willing to pay for an item before bidding, and bear in mind that fast payment will result in fast shipment. If you are paying by PayPal eCheck, please remember that eChecks work like paper checks and take several business days to process. I will not be able to ship your item until your eCheck clears. SHIPPING: I prefer to ship everything by first class mail with tracking and delivery confirmation included. Unfortunately, if your package weighs over 13 oz., I have no choice but to ship it by priority mail (still as reliable as first class, just a little more costly). Priority mail costs are calculated by weight and buyer location and are determined by the U.S. Postal Service. Sometimes rates can seem a bit high, but I can assure you I do not make any money on shipping charges, and I do not charge a handling fee. Please keep that in mind when leaving feedback and detailed star ratings (DSR). COMBINED SHIPPING: I am more than happy to combine shipping charges on all eligible items, but will only do so for auctions that end within a 3-day period (this is because of my 4-day payment policy). Please let me know as soon as possible which additional item(s) you will be bidding on, and DO NOT PAY FOR ANY ONE ITEM until you receive a final invoice from me. If you do not follow this one simple rule, eBay will not be able to calculate an accurate invoice, and you will end up missing out on the savings. All eligible items will be shipped by priority mail in one package, and the shipping cost will be based on the weight of that package. If you would like to take a look at my other items click here! FEEDBACK: I am committed to providing 100% customer satisfaction. If you are not satisfied with your purchase in any way, please contact me prior to leaving negative or neutral feedback. As my goal is to receive a five-star across the board rating for this sale, I will make every effort to work with you towards an equitable resolution. In the past, I would leave feedback immediately for all transactions and not receive any in return. If you would like to exchange feedback, please leave it for me, and I will then do the same for you.Thanks for looking, and please be sure to add me and my best friend, Toby, to your favorites list! No Charge For Pet Hair!
Related Auctions:
Vintage Victoria Ceramics Palomino Horses Salt and Pepper Shaker, Japan VINTAGE NOVELTY VICTORIA CERAMICS  BLACK BEAR PAIR SALT AND PEPPER SHAKERS Vtg Victoria Ceramics Japan Vivid Purple Cow Salt & Pepper Shakers Matte Finish PAIR OF VINTAGE BOXING BABY BOYS SALT & PEPPER SHAKERS JAPAN
