Fixed Readers
Easy to deploy, use, and manage, Motorola's high performance FX7400 series of fixed RFID readers is ideally suited for global enterprise deployments in space-constrained, customer-facing environments. It boasts a compact design married with a set of highly integrated, enterprise features including: auto-discovery and application-specific set-up for ease of installation; power over Ethernet (POE) to eliminate the need for costly power drops; and advanced features for secure data transmission. This unique combination makes the FX7400 series of RFID readers particularly well-suited for retail inventory and enterprise asset management applications in any environment where performance and a small footprint are important.
Key features and benefits include:
Highly integrated features, including PoE, GPIO and management software Provides a low cost per read point -- and a superior TCO 2-port and 4-port reader configurations Provides application flexibility and optimal investment Open standards-based architecture: EPC standards-based defined reader management Auto-discovery Flexible firmware upgrade features Showcase II management tool Enables seamless integration with existing IT environments as well as remote and centralized management, while simplifying and reducing the cost of set-up, deployment, testing and management Next generation reader platform, including dense reader mode support Best-in-class read rates deliver superior read performance
Supporting the worldwide movement to Gen 2 technology, the INfinity 510 redefines the state-of the-art for RFID readers. This powerful UHF reader system is designed for enterprise class applications and features best-in-class air interface performance. In addition, the robust, software-based architecture provides a rich application platform that addresses the needs of today's deployments and ensures that future features and capabilities can be added as RFID technology evolves in the future. The INfinity 510 was designed from the ground up to support worldwide regulatory compliance from a single platform. The design provides optimal performance in North American, European and Asia- Pacific environments. The INfinity 510 offers a wide portfolio of configuration and enterprise management tools that changes the paradigm of RFID system installation and management. For the end-user who needs a quick, out-of-the box solution, the INfinity 510 provides an intuitive installation wizard allowing the user to be able to begin reading tags within minutes.
