Updated Health Effects Assessment for Acetone
Archive disclaimer Archived files are provided for reference purposes only. The file was current when produced, but is no longer maintained and may now be outdated. Persons with disabilities having difficulty accessing archived files may contact the NCEA Webmaster for assistance. Please visit http://epa.gov/ncea to access current information.
Report Information
This report summarizes and evaluates information relevant to a preliminary interim assessment of adverse health effects associated with specific chemicals or compounds. The Office of Emergency and Remedial Response (Superfund) uses these documents in preparing cost-benefit analyses under Executive Order 12991 for decision-making under CERCLA. All estimates of acceptable intakes and carcinogenic potency presented in this document should be considered as preliminary and reflect limited resources allocated to this project. The intent in these assessments is to suggest acceptible exposure levels whenever sufficient data are available. The interim values presented reflect the relative degree of hazard associated with exposure or risk to the chemical(s) addressed. Whenever possible, two categories of values have been estimated for systemic toxicants (toxicants for which cancer is not the endpoint of concern). The first, RfDS or subchronic reference dose, is an estimate of an exposure level that would not be expected to cause adverse effects when exposure occurs during a limited time interval. The RfD is an estimate of an exposure level that would not be expected to cause adverse effects when exposure occurs for a significant portion of the lifespan. For compounds for which there is sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity, ql*s have been computed, if appropriate, based on oral and inhalation data if available.
Technical Information Staff
by phone at:   703-347-8561 by fax at:   703-347-8691 by email at:  nceadc.comment@epa.gov
Additional Information
Project Officer Chris DeRosa, FTS 684-7534
Citation
U.S. EPA.  Updated Health Effects Assessment for Acetone.  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, D.C., EPA/600/8-89/085 (NTIS PB90142373), 1989.
Downloads
Updated Health Effects Assessment for Acetone
Local Navigation
Environmental Assessment Home Basic Information Recent Additions Calendar of Events Employment Where You Live Science Activities Publications Tools and Databases Related Links RSS Feeds
News Feeds Podcasts EPA Mobile News by Email Widgets Students
EPA Home Privacy and Security Notice Contact Us Last Updated on Monday, September 25, 2006
Jump to main content.
 
