Mitsubishi ASX3 1.8 DiD review (2010 onwards model) 

- Model: Mitsubishi ASX3 1.8 DiD 2WD- Bodystyle: Small crossover SUV- Engine: 1.8-litre turbodiesel- Transmission: six-speed manual- Date of test: June 2010
What is it?
Mitsubishi's entry into the rapidly expanding small crossover segment. Designed for those who want a family car, but quite like the safety and visibility of a higher 4x4-style vehicle - even though few actually are powered by all four wheels. It is unashamedly aimed at the urban school-run market, rather than the rural buyer, although I'm sure Mitsubishi will sell you one whoever you are.
Where does it fit?
Three years ago Nissan largely had this market to itself with its Qashqai, which offered 4x4-cum-mini-MPV practicality and driving position at Ford Focus prices. It sold strongly, something noticed by everyone else - and now in 2010 Mitsubishi enters a crowded market, with new or recent competitors in the shape of: Kia's Sportage, the Peugeot 3008, the Skoda Yeti, Hyundai's Tucson - as well as the market-leading Nissan. In the Mitsubishi world, it sits slightly above the quirky MIEV supermini and Colt - but below the Lancer, Lancer Evo, Outlander 4x4, and Shogun large 4x4.
As such the ASX represents an attempt by Mitsubishi to reposition itself away from its famous performance and 4x4 cars and towards a more touchy-feely environmentally friendly market position. The vast majority of ASXs will be front-wheel drive only, like this one tested.
Is it for you?
Do you have a smallish, young family? Do you like the idea of space and decent car handling - but the advantage of a high-driving position? All at more or less the same prices as a conventional family hatchback such as a Golf or Astra? Then most definitely. Some of the motor industry's niches make little sense apart from to car marketing executives but this isn't one of them.
What does it do well?
Space and pace. It is built on the same chassis as its big brother Outlander model, and has the same wheelbase, which gives it a nice spacious interior and none of the inverse-tardisness of so many SUV-type vehicles. But crucially it is a good 34cms shorter than the Outlander, giving it a smaller footprint than a Focus.
All this is married to a peachy new 1.8-litre turbodiesel engine which revs freely and happily and gives the car a real petrol-style urge - as we found on some interesting roads between Bristol and Bath. Good for a chunky 147hp, it delivers a useful 221 lb ft of torque at 2,000rpm - plenty enough to shove its 1,450kg around.
And it drives really well. Because it's high but not too high it suffers none of the swaying suffered by larger 4x4s and there is little body-roll during sharp-cornering. It is an eager little beaver.
What doesn't it do well?
It is a decent enough car to look at, but the slight downwards roofline swoop comes at familiar cost: limited rear-headroom; just about OK for me, but no good for Peter Crouch, for example. The dashboard is sensible enough but I couldn't get away from the feeling of to-a-budget plastics. I thought the car's cloth seats were adequate rather than brilliant, though my companion complained about a lack of lumbar support which passed me by: if you have back problems, then drive it first.
What's it like to live with?
The dials and colour information are very clear and easy-to-follow, though I'm unsure about the 'See you' message which pops up when you turn off the engine. The car is spacious and even though I am lanky I thought rear legroom was pretty good overall. The boot is large and usefully shaped (442 litres seats-up, 1,193 litres seats down), while there is an excellent 30-litre lift-up secret compartment which is room enough for a fair-sized laptop bag. I didn't get the chance to give the car my usual 'does it fit a folded-up pushchair' test but it seemed wide enough for me.
Standard equipment across the range includes air-conditioning, seven airbags, keyless go, reach and rake adjustable steering, a range of stability controls, and an audio jack for your music player. Posher versions feature sat-nav, full-on integrated iPod controls, and a reversing camera, among other things.
How green is it?
Strong, if not class leading. This 1.8- DiD model is good for 51.4mpg combined and 145g CO2/km, while under fairly hard driving we managed 45mpg. Decent - though the best 3008 does just 130g and the best Qashqai does 129g CO2/km. Its green credentials are aided by across-the-range economy enhancing features including Auto Stop & Go stop-start, electric power steering, regenerative brakes, low consumption LED rear-lights, and low roll-resistance tyres. It also has the best drag coefficient in its class.
Would we buy it?
Yes. It looks good, drives well, has a lovely engine, and is competitively priced. It also promises strong residuals and should be cheaper to insure than most of its rivals since Mitsubishi has worked hard to keep parts prices down - as a result ASXs are a good three or four insurance groups lower than the Qashqai's. There is also a low-cost servicing deal which is well worth taking up. The warranty is three years. On paper thus the ASX acquits itself well - but it has some strong competitors: the ASX does not have quite the interior quality of the Qashqai, nor its impish charm. But it is definitely well worth a test drive.
Our test car was £18,549. The 1.6-litre petrol version (arriving September 2010) of this trim level is a lot cheaper at £16,799 - but will have rather weaker residual value: it will hold onto 32% after three years vs 35% for the diesel, according to CAP.