NZ's Afghan troops poorly trained: report 

The Defence Force contingent which lost five soldiers in Afghanistan wasn't trained well enough before it left for the war-torn country, a leaked report says.
Kiwi Company's "blatant failure to respect and adhere to rules of engagement [during training] showed ... a lack of respect for command, lack of situational awareness and professional callowness", according to the report written by the military intelligence sergeant who reviewed the group's preparation before they left for Bamiyan.
He identifies problems in command, logistics and planning, and also criticises the attitude of commanders and lower ranks, The New Zealand Herald reports.
One aggressive senior officer "wants to turn Bamiyan into a more war-fighting role" and neglected relationship-building skills with Afghan locals, the report said.
The contingent lost Lance Corporals Rory Malone and Pralli Durrer, Corporal Luke Tamatea, Lance Corporal Jacinda Baker and Private Richard Harris to insurgent action.
The Defence Force admitted that the contingent of more than 100 had gaps in its preparation.
Staff got more training in Afghanistan and the contingent was "independently assessed as capable" before taking over Kiwi Base in Bamiyan.
In a statement, it said the leaked report was just one of 23 evaluations, and the bulk of the comments were not reflected in the final status report.
"It should also be noted that it was the first time that the author of those comments had observed on a pre-deployment training exercise," said Vice Chief of Defence Force, Major General Tim Keating.
Labour Party defence spokesman Iain Lees-Galloway wanted a promise from the government that budget cuts were not hurting training standards.
Defence Minister Jonathan Coleman said he had been assured by the Defence Force that any training gaps were addressed before the troops entered operations.
The deaths in two separate incidents were still being investigated, he said.
"It is mischievous for Labour to suggest that funding was a factor in pre-deployment training and incorrect for Labour to say funding has compromised troop safety in Afghanistan. New Zealand efforts in Afghanistan have been well funded."