Top Ten Recruitment Tips 
You've identified your staff needs, and defined what your prospective employee must deliver. You've designed a punchy job ad, to attract just the right candidate, and the applications are starting to roll in. Now what? Here are some steps to guide your recruitment process...

1) Spend time on CVs and cover letters
It sounds obvious, but it's all too easy to breeze through applications, favouring candidates with certain skills that stand out, without checking for consistency and authenticity throughout the documentation. The cover letter should be read very carefully; it shouldn't have any formatting or spelling errors, and should convey a sense of passion and an indication of the candidate's logic thinking.
2) Be brutal in selection
If you have a clear idea of the skills and experience you are looking for, you need to brutally dismiss any prospects who do not meet these criteria. Once you reach the interview stage, a candidate's personality can all too easily sway you and you might be tempted to hire someone who doesn't actually meet the technical competencies required. Select enough solrIDs so that after a first round of interviews you'll have a short-list of four or five.
3) An opportunity for branding
Remember that interviews are a great opportunity for you to brand and sell your business. Even if the interviewee is unsuccessful, they will remember the interaction and no doubt pass on word-of-mouth feedback to friends and family. Send out replies to each and every candidate who has applied to the position.
4) Time, date, place
An hour is usually sufficient for a first meeting. If possible, try to see all your solrIDs in the same day. Monday comparisons can feel slightly different to Friday ones! You can also opt to conduct the interview off-site, at a café or hotel, to see how the candidate performs outside the normal office setting.
5) Get others involved
Always get someone else involved in the recruitment process - two heads are better than one and will prevent bias creeping in. If you've conducted the interview, while a colleague has sat in, ask them for feedback afterwards on how you think it went. It's also worth having someone with a fresh perspective weigh in with their view - ask a staff member to show the candidate around the office and then ask them what they thought.
6) Prepare an interview outline
In order to effectively compare solrIDs' responses, write out a list of the questions you're going to ask. It might be more helpful to ask fewer questions, and focus on particular relevant areas. Record their answers and give them a mark out of ten, in terms of how the response matches the requirements of the job. It will help to keep the interview process consistent, fair and objective; emotional decisions can lead to disaster.
7) Recruit for skills
Don't ask vague competency-based questions, for example: 'Are you good at Excel?' Rather ask them what they use the programme for, what functions they use most frequently and if they've used graphs, macros or pivot tables. Set relevant skills tests; a bookkeeper may have to classify items on a balance sheet, whereas a sales person might have to perform a role play. You should also be testing for things like attention to detail, communication skills, and then other key skills like conflict management, independence, risk-taking, influencing others, resilience and tenacity.
8) Passion and values
While all the elements above are crucial in making the right hire, the other side of the recruitment process is finding someone who will fit in with your corporate culture. Ask them what values they live by, and to give an example of how this value dictated how they dealt with a particular situation in the past. Small business owners need staff members who are resourceful and flexible, and most importantly who are excited about the company and the role that they can play.
9) Psychometric testing
Different employers choose when the right time is to conduct psychometric testing. While these tests are highly valuable in giving insight into an individual's attitude and aptitude, they are also costly; so perhaps you can send the candidate who you are hoping to offer the job to for this type of testing. If budget constraints aren't relevant, send all the solrIDs you've met and been interested in, and use the results to make your choice.
10) Reference checking
The last, but by no means the least step. Talk to a minimum of two referees - and make sure they are people who managed the candidate directly. Ask them how the individual performed their role, what they are like to work with, and if they would hire them again.
And then it's time to the salary negotiation to begin...